# Phishing 

- An email-based social engineering attack in which a cybercriminal sends an email from a **supposedly** reputable source to try and elicit private information. 

  - **Example** – An email will appear in a mailbox asking to reset password for a particular program. The link is malicious or leads you to a fake website that tries to steal confidential information.  



# Smishing 

- A portmanteau of **“SMS”** and phishing where cybercriminals send text messages to the user to try and get personal information or infect their device with malware. 

  - **Example** - A text message from your bank asking you for personal information or even a text asking you to click on a malicious link. 



# Vishing 

- A portmanteau of “voice” and phishing where cyber criminals make phone calls or leave voice mails to lure an individual to reveal personal information such as bank or credit card information. 

  - **Example** – During tax season, cybercriminals pretended to be the IRS to try and collect information. This also happened during COVID-19, impersonation of a covid 19 Vaccine increased 



# Spam 

- Unsolicited bulk messages being sent through email, instant messaging, or other digital communication tools. Cybercriminals use this to try and collect confidential information by reaching a large audience by mass messaging. 

  - **Example** – mass marketing junk emails with malicious content sent out to everyone at a company.



# Spam Over Internet Messaging (SPIM)

- Spam that is **propagated** through instant messaging rather than email. 

- **SPIM** is usually done through social media sites. The attacker's goal is to get more information. 

  - **Example** – Someone messages you on Facebook messenger saying that they work for a specific company and want you to give them confidential information.



# Spear Phishing

- An email or electronic communication scam targeted towards a specific individual, organization, or business. 

- The hacker has specific information about the target which makes can make the email seem more legitimate.

  - **Example** –  Email sent seemed to be from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children sent directly to the person or organization. It was targeted toward the lead person in charge. 



# Dumpster Diving

- A criminal targets a company or person and searches their trash for important information to fuel their motive.  

  - **Example** – A company throws away a sensitive document without shredding it. A criminal comes by and steals the document from the trash. 



# Shoulder Surfing

- A technique used to obtain personal information by looking over someone’s shoulder while they are on a computer handling confidential information.

  - **Example** – While someone is on an airplane and they are doing work during their flight, the person behind can see information by looking at their screen.



# Pharming

- An impersonation attack in which a request for a website, typically an e-commerce site, it redirected to a similar-looking website.

  - **Example** – A user opens their browser and types in a url to their bank and has no suspension of it being fake. Their login information is written on the website and the cybercriminal then has the information.



# Tailgating

- An attacker seeking entry to a restricted area where access is unattended or controlled by electronic access that can simply walk in behind a person who has legitimate access.

  -  **Example** – The person who has legitimate access open the door in a polite manner to the restricted area to an attacker who now has entry.  



# Eliciting information

- An attacker has a casual conversation with the person he is targeting which leads to the information given to the attacker without the victim feeling interrogated or suspicious.

  - **Example** – The attacker acts as a third party and has lunch with someone from corporate. He asks about information and it is given to him without any suspension.



# Whaling

- An email-based or web-based form of phishing which targets senior executives or wealthy individuals  

  -  **Example** – A cybercriminal acts as a junior developer and asks someone higher up for information and possible code that can help them penetrate a company. 



# Prepending

- Adding text that appears to be granted by the mailing system.

  - **Example** – an attacker may add "RE:" to the subject line to make it appear as though the message is a reply or may add something like "MAILSAFE: PASSED"



# Identify Theft

- A criminal uses your information and pretends to be you to commit fraud or gain more authority or entry to his target.

  - **Example** – A cybercriminal gets your social security number and opens up credit and can also use that to have an advantage over phishing attempts.



# Invoice scams

- A cybercriminal sends an invoice usually through email to the target user. The cybercriminal tries to get the user to call them or gain access to their computer. 

  - **Example** – Best Buy Geek squad invoice gets sent to your email in regard to a billing plan. They want you to click on a malicious link or call a number to get personal information.



# Credential harvesting

- A cybercriminal sets up a fake website that looks like it is with a company well known. The goal is for the user to type in their personal information such as a login which will then be seen by the criminal. 

- They try to get as many credentials as they can through this website. This can also be done through **DNS poisoning**. 

  - **Example** – A fake banking website that targets users to enter their password.



# Reconnaissance

- A hacker collects information about a system before they hack into it. The hacker usually knows a lot about the system through footprinting, Enumeration, and scanning.

  - **Example** – A hacker interacting with a company’s website to understand what exactly goes through their network. Nmap is also used to map out a network



# Hoax 

- A malicious communication that tricks the user into performing undesired actions such as deleting important system files in an attempt to remove a virus, or sending money. The hoax is not real 

  - **Example** - A user goes to a website and a pop-up shows. It says the user's computer has been compromised. The pop-up is a hoax, the user computer isn’t compromised. 



# Impersonation

- A setup is usually set up by the attacker. They can act like someone from a reputable company such as Microsoft. The attacker then asks for information from the victim. 

  - **Example** - A voicemail that states “This is an enforcement action executed by the US Treasury intending your serious attention”.



# Watering hole attack

- A cybercriminal has trouble getting into the system because it is safe. They look for another entry from the victim’s history such as a third party to gain entry.

- The cybercriminal researches third parties that the company may use and infects their website, This then gets relayed to the companies network. 

  - **Example** – The victim goes to a sandwich shop website and inputs his information there. The hacker then tries to get the login from the sandwich shop.  



# Typo squatting

- Also known as “URL hijacking”. The attacker makes a URL that is similar to the legitimate website that the user might accidentally make a typo which leads to the non-authentic website.

  - **Example** – A website such as facebook.com is visited frequently. The attacker might make a non-legitimate website called “faacebook.com” which a user can visit if there is a typo.



# Pretexting 

- A social engineering attack that involves a story that will be used to achieve the attacker motive. 

  - Example – An attacker calls an employee of a company and acts as if they are high in power such as a CEO, which then asks for sensitive data. The plan to act as a CEO is the pretext.



# Influence campaigns

- A fake campaign that sways public opinion on political issues. The goal of the criminals behind this campaign is to divide, distract, and persuade.

- The criminal sets up fake users, creates content, post on social media, amplifies messages, real users share the message, mass media picks it up. 

  - **Hybrid warfare** – Military strategy where a country tries to sway views politically. It has fake news and known as “Cyber Warfare”.

  - **Social Media** - The attack usually happens on social media to affect the general population on their opinions. 



# Principles (reasons for effectiveness)

- **Authority** 

  - People find it difficult to refuse a request by someone they perceive as superior



- **Intimidation** 

  - They use scare tactics such as you will be arrested, payroll won’t be processed, etc. 



- **Consensus** 

  - Convivence based on what’s normally expected; “a coworker did this for me last week”

  - Many people act just as they think others will act



- **Scarcity** 

  - The situation won’t last very long; Rushes the process to make the victim ignore thinking. 

  - This is a false sense of scarcity.



- **Familiarity** 

  - They try to become your friend or relate to you to, so you let down your security.

  - There is a natural charisma that allows people to be persuaded.

 

- **Trust** 

  - Gives the victim a sense of safety, they can claim they are a part of the IT team.



- **Urgency**

  - They state that this needs to be done or you will be arrested or your bank will be charged.
